# Software for evaluating BGS algorithms

This Repository contains the implementation of some background subtraction methods, based on statistical modeling of pixels behavior within an image sequence. The background behavior of an image sequence can be modeled either with a mixture of Gaussian distributions[1] or a set of Gaussian Kernels[2]. The code is set of C++ classes along with the [OpenCV](http://www.opencv.org) library. A binary program is also available to evaluate the results of background subtraction algorithms included in this repository; the foreground masks generated by the methods can be compared against a ground truth (reference frame). The program compares pixel-to-pixel the produced silhouettes with its ground truth, resulting in a group of True/False Positive/Negative metrics which are combined to produce a general F1 score measure.

This repository is the outcome of a software project aimed to automatically generate a set of segmented silhouettes from a common human actions dataset[4]. Several executions of the algorithms to separate foreground from the background were conducted, they were applied over [MuHAVI](http://dipersec.king.ac.uk/MuHAVi-MAS/)[3] dataset; a dedicated collection of common human actions (run, walk, jump, etc) played on a scene with a night rough environment. On the first part of the proejct, the specific background subtraction methods run on [MuHAVi](http://dipersec.king.ac.uk/MuHAVi-MAS/) (Multicamera Human Action Video). While the second part, the generated foreground masks were compared with the set of manually annotate images (ground-truth) available on the dataset (MuHAVi-MAS, manually annotated set). The F1-score was the metric to make performance evaluation of the algorithms. Finally the whole MuHAVI dataset was processed choosing the best score algorithm, resulting in a set of no perfect segmented silhouettes (MuHAVi "uncut") available to experiment with human action recognition algorithms.



# References

1. Chen, Z. & Ellis, T. (2011). Self-adaptive Gaussian mixture model for urban traffic monitoring system.. ICCV Workshops
(p./pp. 1769-1776), : IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-4673-0062-9
2. Elgammal, A. M., Harwood, D. & Davis, L. S. (2000). Non-parametric Model for Background Subtraction.. In D. Vernon
(ed.), ECCV (2) (p./pp. 751-767), : Springer. ISBN: 3-540-67686-4
3. Singh S., Velastin, S.A. & Hossein H. (2010). ’MuHAVi: A Multicamera Human Action Video Dataset for the Evaluation
of Action Recognition Methods’. In Proceedings of the 2010 7th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Video and
Signal Based Surveillance (AVSS ’10). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 48-55.
4. Sepúlveda, J., Velastin, S.A.: ’F1 Score Assesment of Gaussian Mixture Background Subtraction Algorithms Using the
MuHAVi Dataset’., 2015., 6th International Conference on Imaging for Crime Prevention and Detection (ICDP-15). ISBN:
978-1-78561-131-5
